[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: And welcome
back to this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory,
and in this show
we're going to be talking about
psychic mediums, the ability
to communicate
with the other side
and to do some
incredible things.
Our special guest
is Marla Frees.
Marla is called the
American psychic.
How did you get that phrase?
>>MARLA FREES: Well, it's
the title of my book,
so I decided that--
>>NOORY: That makes sense.
And I think the whole thing
about being an American psychic
is we come from this incredible
heartland, at least I do.
I come from Pennsylvania.
>>NOORY: I come from Detroit.
Same thing.
>>FREES: Yeah.
So it's the
heartland of America.
And I think that there's
something about my growing up
that makes me the
heartland conversation.
>>NOORY: We're all
born with this ability.
Some people develop it.
Other people do not.
How did this happen for you?
>>FREES: Well, I
think that part of it
was the incredible growing
up in Pennsylvania.
Some of it was
challenging, and some of it
was really wonderful, being in
the woods, being with animals,
being with sentient beings.
But I think that it
was the challenging
trauma that made my
hypersensitivities really
aware.
>>NOORY: Marla, is intuition
the same as being psychic?
And by that I mean, if you get
these feelings, oh my gosh,
I shouldn't be doing this
today, or I shouldn't
sit at this
intersection, and then
the car goes right through
it, you could have been hit--
is that being psychic?
>>FREES: Oh, certainly.
And actually, that's
why I call myself,
in the title of
the book, psychic.
I mean, it's all
psychic functioning.
Empathic work, intuition,
it's all psychic functioning.
And yes, and we all have it.
So I didn't want to
skirt around the issue.
It's kind of a terminology
that some people don't like
or that has sort of a
negative connotation to it.
And I intend to change
that because I've
done a lot of work, through
the science of this,
to actually understand
psychic functioning.
So when you have
a thought process,
when you have a feeling,
it's absolutely imperative
to pay attention to it.
>>NOORY: Tell me about
your work with the dead.
>>FREES: I see, hear, feel
information that comes
from the deceased loved ones.
So it can be anything.
>>NOORY: You see dead people.
>>FREES: Well, you
know, it's funny.
>>NOORY: The sixth
sense, the little boy.
>>FREES: I'm not like that.
It's not that I see shadows or
I actually see the dead person.
And we all have our
different skills.
Each psychic medium
has their own skill.
Mine happens to be a thin
sliced moment of emotions.
And actually, I go blind
to my present circumstances
when they want me to
see something for you.
They bilocate me to some
memory or even your own house
to give me
information about you.
>>NOORY: So they contact you.
Do they sometimes
bother you too much?
>>FREES: You know what?
I think that's possibly how
we learn to train ourselves
through this, George, because
when it started for me,
that's exactly how it started.
I was given information.
And I was like, where
is this coming from?
And I paid attention to it.
>>NOORY: You were in
an exercise course
when you had this
feeling about some woman.
Let's take a look.
>>FREES: OK.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I get real emotional
when I look at you,
and I actually feel
a father figure.
Has your father passed?
- Yes, my father did pass.
- OK.
He really wants to come
through and talk to you.
That's what was
happening when I was
standing beside you in class.
I could feel this overwhelming,
I want her to know,
and I saw this man, and I
knew he was your father.
And it was a deep
connection, but a separation,
whether you even knew him.
Did you know him?
- No.
- OK.
So that's even more significant
because here he is, he's dead,
he finds me and
wants to talk to you.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Did you just approach
her at this exercise class?
>>FREES: Well, you know,
it was being filmed.
So I basically said, well,
I'm going to walk in here,
and whoever I feel
the strongest to,
we need to pull her
to be close to me.
And that's exactly
what happened.
>>NOORY: How did that lady react
to you beyond what we just saw?
>>FREES: Well, it was a
process for her to take--
>>NOORY: You looked emotional.
>>FREES: I was.
>>NOORY: I mean, almost
like you were crying.
>>FREES: Well, here's the thing.
>>NOORY: Do you tear up
during some of these things?
>>FREES: Well, I
can feel the love
and the emotion that's coming
through the deceased loved one.
I mean, there's
actually no reason
to do this work,
George, unless--
it is about love.
It's about the connection.
Apparently this
gentleman had not even
seen her daughter for years.
They had no connection.
So for him to come
in and need to make
some form of communication with
her, that was the whole point.
That's the love.
And I could feel that.
I often feel the deceased's
emotions, whether it's upset,
whether it's-- and it's
usually profound love.
>>NOORY: Is this a curse
or a blessing for you?
>>FREES: Oh, I think
it's the greatest
thing that ever happened to me.
>>NOORY: So you've had no
negative undertones with this.
>>FREES: Well, I've worked
for law enforcement,
and people ask me about
those cases all the time.
And sometimes it's
giving a voice
to somebody who needs a voice.
And sometimes it's helpful
to law enforcement officers.
>>NOORY: Well, tell
me how that works.
What does a law enforcement
person want with you?
>>FREES: Well, I think that
they're at their last resort.
That's when they bring us
in because it's usually
a cold case that I'll work on.
They don't have anything to
lose, so they'll bring me in.
And sometimes it's information
about the actual case,
it's a trajectory
of information.
Sometimes it's a map or
something that I can draw.
But sometimes it
literally is communicating
with a deceased loved one.
>>NOORY: I had
heard, in some cases,
where the psychic is so tuned
in that they told the police
things only that the murderer
would know, for example.
And that gets the psychic
looked at as a possible suspect.
>>FREES: Well, yeah, we have
to be careful about that, sure.
I have a story in my book
that's really great about that.
I was shooting a pilot, and I
literally went into a situation
where I actually became the
perpetrator for a moment.
And I was working with a
detective, and I said, listen,
I can feel myself
as the perpetrator.
That means the
perpetrator's passed on.
So interrogate me like
you would if you were
talking to the perpetrator.
And through me, I--
well, the perpetrator and I--
drew a map.
And we took that
map and we actually
put it on a map of Los Angeles.
This was in Orange
Grove, California.
Garden Grove, excuse me.
And the lines were
the freeways, the star
was actually the murder
that we were working on.
And the other elements
were of the other rapes,
and not necessarily murders
that were in that area.
>>NOORY: I want to
come back to your work
here in just a second.
But when you get contacted
from the other side,
where are they, generally?
I mean, I look at it in
terms of dimensional things.
But where are they?
>>FREES: Well, and
where am I, too,
because that's always
curious, because I'm always,
like, why are you
picking me in the shower?
Why am I in a cab and you're
needing to talk to me now?
So the information
is coming in and I
could be talking to somebody on
the phone in a couple of hours.
Or somebody could be
seeing me in person.
But I do think it's a
dimension it's information.
So they're coming to me.
Is the intention of love?
I have the intention,
when I work with somebody,
to give them the most important
information for their life.
And sometimes it's about
a deceased loved one,
and sometimes it's just
straight psychic information,
you know, what's going on
in your health, your career,
your relationships.
But when a deceased loved one
wants to make a connection,
it comes in on a love--
it's like a love filament.
It's a fiber optic
filament of love.
And it connects to me, and
they use me almost like a--
>>NOORY: Can you
feel it instantly?
Is it like a burst of
energy that hits you?
>>FREES: Well, it's certainly
a different personality.
You know, I can often
get up in the morning,
and I'm just trying
to live my life.
And all of a sudden
I'm craving something
that I normally don't
eat, or I get fastidious
and I'm cleaning up
something that I usually
wouldn't clean up, although it's
probably good for me to do it.
I actually make
notes about that,
because I write information
down before I even
get on the phone with someone.
And it could be about
a deceased loved one
or it could be about something
that that person's doing
that they need to
change, they need
to alter in their own life.
>>NOORY: Do you accept the fact
that there's a heaven and hell?
>>FREES: Well, let's
put it this way.
I think that we create our
own heaven and our own hell.
And it's my experience from
learning this from the deceased
that the deceased,
when they cross over,
have an opportunity
to see their lives,
what they've done here,
the good and the bad.
And they have to come
to some sort of--
well, they have to find
some way to process
that inside themselves.
I have been in
situations where I've
met people who have been stuck
and that needed to be released,
moved on.
And I've also met
people that are
in such joy and such inspiration
that they're doing their
very best to try and
help us know that they're
in a great space,
that they're fabulous,
and that they're wonderful,
and that they're in heaven.
>>NOORY: Do you pick up
little voices in your head
when they first contact you?
I mean, how do you know
this is really happening?
>>FREES: Well, you know, I
have enough experience now
to decipher what it is.
But when it first started,
it was really interesting
because I had been exploring
the psychic elements of my life,
hearing a voice.
Actually, it was
a voice when I was
14 years old that
saved me from a very
serious accident with my horse.
That voice came in clear
and told me to do something
that I was not prepared for,
basically said, put your feet
in those stirrups and hang on.
>>NOORY: And had you not,
what would have happened?
>>FREES: Well, I could
have slammed into a wall--
>>NOORY: Cracked your head.
>>FREES: I could
have died easily.
So that voice--
>>NOORY: But how do you know
that's not your inner self?
>>FREES: Well, I didn't
know at the time.
I mean, at the time I was
very ensconced in the church
and I thought it was Jesus.
It didn't matter
exactly what it was.
It was something that saved me.
And the consciousness of
Christ, or whatever came into me
at that moment, saved
me at that moment.
But that voice that was telling
me things, or my own intuition,
whatever you want to call
it, I was growing myself
through that.
When it came to the deceased
loved one, different story.
Personality, emotional,
intentionality, very different
from that guiding voice that I
had had growing up as a child.
>>NOORY: I've always
wondered, Marla,
if we have a mechanism
within our self,
though, almost like radar
or something that somehow
addresses these subconscious
things like your horse
accident, like my almost
car accident, when something
told me, don't go through
the intersection, George.
And I've got a
green light, right?
I've got people
behind me, and I've
got something in my head
saying don't go through,
don't go through.
So I stopped.
I got people honking behind me.
When I stopped, some guy
comes through his red light.
He would have broadsided me.
God knows what would
have happened to me.
But that moment that
I stopped, I was safe.
I don't know what did that.
And so I'm thinking
maybe, do we have,
like some insects have this
ability to shoot signals out
and stuff?
Is that what's happening?
Or are we really getting
help from the other side?
Was there somebody
from the other side,
my guardian angel, somebody
who told me that in my head?
>>FREES: Right.
Well, we can also think
about the higher self.
You've heard of the
oversoul or the higher self.
That, too, along with--
and sometimes it's a
belief system about angels.
To me it's consciousness.
Whatever the consciousness is--
you know, I've been
studying and working
with Tom Campbell, the physicist
and consciousness expert.
And I've learned to use
the terminology larger
consciousness
system, because it's
great PR for God and
Jesus, because everything
in this consciousness that
has come to us to assist us
is from a greater consciousness
that is incredibly benevolent.
And I think that we have
something to do here, George,
and we are interested
in all the aspects
about this psychic functioning.
The subconscious, the
angels, the loved ones
who want to come in.
This is what we're interested
in, along with other energies
that want to help us, want
to give us information.
It's all consciousness.
It's to help us grow up.
>>NOORY: I saw a movie
with John Travolta
where he got zapped by
lightning, almost killed him.
And once he awakened, he was
really psychic and tuned in.
That trauma works, doesn't it?
>>FREES: Absolutely.
When I told you
about the incident
when I was 14 years old
when the voice came to me,
I literally did get off that
horse, and I did hit my head,
and that's when a lot of the
voice and connection happened.
But oh my god, there
have been instances
after instances about this.
And in the second half of
my book, "American Psychic,"
the point is when I am
stalked by an individual,
that antenna blew
out of my head,
and that's when all this
stuff started coming in.
>>NOORY: Why does
trauma do this?
>>FREES: I think that
fear has two sides to it.
Fear can make us more
aware and open us up,
or it can shut us down.
And I think with me,
I was like looking,
asking, praying,
intentioning, meditating.
I wanted to be able to see.
I needed to see
to get myself out
of the situation
instead of cloistering
myself or medicating myself.
And this is a very
interesting aspect
about medication
within our society,
because I do believe that our
sensitivities and our traumas
are what people are
trying to medicate.
And if we can find a way to
help people understand and heal
this emotional depravity
from their childhood, or even
an event, or even a
war, then perhaps people
don't come back and
need to be medicated
by opioids or any kind
of substance like that.
I think it is in the
psychic functioning
that we need help being
able to translate it.
We need to also take
the booga booga out
of it, so that it is literally
psychic functioning that
is something that
we all do and that
has no negative
connotation with it.
>>NOORY: You were
talking about your work
with law enforcement in
homicides, in cases like that.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- OK.
Listen, my frame of reference
as a psychic profiler
is, if I'm in the car right
here, I'm feeling things,
so I'm going to step out.
If there was sexual assault,
which there may have been,
she doesn't want her family
to have to relive that.
I know that she sat
here for hours dead.
So after the altercation,
nobody found her.
Oh, my neck.
Every time I step
back into this car,
I'm assuming that
the car's here.
It's like pulling
right in there.
It's like pulling.
So when she comes in
and comes to this plane
or comes to the frequency
of being living,
she allows herself in
me to feel the feelings
of what happened to her.
My throat is starting
to tighten up.
I'm getting tight on my throat
like I'm losing my voice.
Oh.
This isn't what she
planned for her life.
This is not how she
wanted to end her life.
This is not, of course,
what she wanted her family
to be left with.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: What happened there?
>>FREES: Well, she was picked
up and taken to that spot,
and she was raped and
murdered and she was choked.
And I believe that--
I can't remember if she
broke her neck at that point.
But that's what happened
in the back of the car.
>>NOORY: And what did
police need from you?
>>FREES: Well, it needed
to be corroborated.
This was actually a cold case.
And the one that I was talking
about, stepping in and becoming
that perpetrator and
drawing that map, that
was also part of this program.
This victim allowed
her story to be used.
This particular pilot
did not hit the air,
but it was transformational
for the family members
because the family members
were also worked with.
Well, what's curious
about this, George,
is that when I stepped
onto that area,
that car was not
there, of course.
It was just the area
that it happened.
So information lives
in these places,
whether it's in an object--
you can go to a place
where a murder was.
And there's some element
inside of my system
that can hook into this.
And I actually went through
that process with her.
>>NOORY: Are you remote viewing?
>>FREES: On some levels we
are when I'm doing this work.
I think that it's
past information,
it's present
information, and it's
also precognition, in some way.
The remote viewing is, if
I'm not going to the place,
I can see it sometimes.
I can bilocate there and see
sort of what's happening.
But actually going to the site,
that's a whole other thing.
>>NOORY: Do you sometimes,
Marla see the perpetrator?
Do you sometimes
see, for example,
in her case, the
person who killed her?
>>FREES: Well, I did do a
sketch of that individual.
And I don't know exactly
what happened with that.
And part of the process of
working for law enforcement
is giving people information,
and you don't always
get the feedback.
I've worked cases that have
gone on to be successful.
And sometimes you
don't know exactly what
happened at the end.
And there are cases, like
I worked that OJ case.
And what happened-- I
mean, we all sort of
knew what happened
in that situation.
But we have no
justice, necessarily,
the way that we want.
Justice, the way a spiritual
conversation is, is there's
something had to
happen where he was not
prosecuted at that time.
Maybe it's the
sense of the DNA had
to be collected differently.
That's when CSI was developed.
And also, domestic violence
was changed all over the world
because of that case.
>>NOORY: What are
you tapping into?
Are you tapping into the victim
who relays this story to you?
Or are you sometimes
tapping into the perpetrator
through his or her eyes?
>>FREES: Yes, sometimes
that's the way it is.
And there have been
cases that I've
worked on through the
perpetrator's eyes, most
definitely.
And that's part of the element--
>>NOORY: That's scary,
don't you think, for you
to be able to be visualizing
what some murderer is actually
doing through his eyes?
>>FREES: Well, I actually am
protected in that way, George.
I feel that I get
to a certain point,
and it's really
about the intention
of why I'm there
in the first place,
to give law enforcement
some piece of information.
And sometimes-- I mean, look,
they always ask psychics,
you know, well, why aren't
you giving us the lottery?
Or why aren't you
saying it's John Smith?
There's a trajectory to
this that is not up to us.
There is some form
of information,
or a time about this, George,
that is not under our control.
I'm given the information that
I'm seeing, that I'm hearing.
And that's what I do.
That's my job when
I work those cases.
>>NOORY: Do you sometimes
not get it right?
>>FREES: Sure.
>>NOORY: Why?
What happens?
>>FREES: Well, it might not be
that it's not getting it right.
It might be that the
information is not enough
for them to do their job.
There was a case with the Cal
Poly student, Kristin Smart.
There were a number of us
that all worked on that.
And this is when I was
first in the field,
literally in the field
looking for various things
about the murder, looking
for the body, whatever.
We all sort of know--
we all know who
the perpetrator is,
and we can't do a
darn thing about it.
>>NOORY: That's got to be
frustrating, very frustrating.
>>FREES: Well, we have to trust
that this larger consciousness
system that has all
this information that's
working with us,
this god source,
is possibly helping
the family members.
The victim is maybe doing
something from the other side.
We don't know.
We just have to trust that
whatever information we get
is basically the best we can do.
>>NOORY: Well, how do you know
that you're being contacted?
What is happening to you
when this is happening?
>>FREES: All right.
I'll give you an
example of this.
You know what you did for
breakfast this morning, right?
>>NOORY: I didn't have any.
>>FREES: OK.
You know how you got up and
you went into the shower,
or you made a call.
You can have that information
in your brain, right?
>>FREES: Well, that's
how it happens for me,
but it's not my information.
I'm like, oh.
This is interesting.
>>NOORY: And you know,
you can tell it's not.
>>FREES: Yes.
I'm like, oh, I'm
being shown this.
Hmm.
Write that down.
>>NOORY: Is it
confusing sometimes?
>>FREES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Because you have to--
>>FREES: Trying to
live my own life.
>>NOORY: Differentiate between
your life and their life,
I guess.
>>FREES: Yeah.
Well, I still learn
how to do that.
We're all in a learning process.
I mean, I'm constantly learning.
>>NOORY: Everybody is.
>>FREES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What would
you say, for you,
has been your most
compelling case
that you've had to deal with?
>>FREES: Well, actually,
it was one of my first.
And it actually opened up the
investigation to go forward
and to try an individual.
>>NOORY: What happened?
What was that story?
>>FREES: Well, actually, it was
a friend of mine from college
who said, well, I heard
you turned into some sort
of psychic or something.
I'm very interested in
taking a look at this murder.
And he brought me a
crime scene photo.
And I held it, and I immediately
bilocated to a field.
It was at nighttime, and I
could see that I was this girl.
I looked down and I could see
the dress that I was wearing.
And I looked up and I recognized
the man who was talking to me.
He was a friend of mine.
And he turned and he hit me.
>>NOORY: He hit you?
>>FREES: Well, he
hit the victim.
He hit me.
And my immediate response
was, why did you do that?
And I gave the information
to the gentleman
who brought me the photo.
This is also in the
book, by the way.
He gave it to--
actually, he gave it to
an investigative reporter,
and the investigative
reporter took it
in because they were
not so sure what
would happen if a psychic
gave him that information.
>>NOORY: There have been all
kinds of sources, I guess,
from these entities.
They come from
different dimensions,
different planes of existence.
Let's take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Researchers have tied Maria
Orsick to a secret society
called the Vril.
This society performed exercises
to awaken what the ancients
referred to as chi.
The legend of Maria
suggests that one night she
was channeling for a
group of social elite
when an otherworldly being
came through and claimed he was
from the star system Aldebaran.
He had a message.
Maria, still in a
trance, began writing
in a mysterious
language and drawing
sketches for a spacecraft.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Now does that happen
to you, where maybe you
get messages from
extraterrestrials
or other sources
like happened to her?
>>FREES: Well, actually, when
I go to the Monroe Institute,
this is part of the work
that is done there for me.
When I said I like
to continue to train,
I go to the largest place of
education that you can for--
>>NOORY: It's been
around for a long time.
>>FREES: Yeah,
expanded awareness,
without the use of
drugs, by the way.
So this is where I go.
And there are programs where
we are literally accessing
other consciousnesses.
And I put a little
recorder on me.
I basically download what
I hear and sometimes there
are drawings along with that.
But I'm not making any
claims as to somebody coming
from a particular star system.
But I have been in
communication with that.
Actually, there's something
going on right now.
I'm involved in a project
with a partner of mine.
And we have a--
I guess we'd have to call
it a cosmic consciousness
project, which is
basically photographs
from celestial objects.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FREES: And we're
getting information.
Seems as though
there is information
in that light that is coming
in the form of photographs.
And we're having it
looked at by all sorts
of different scientists
and physicists.
>>NOORY: Are you
intrigued by this so far?
>>FREES: Oh, absolutely.
It has expanded the
idea of consciousness
into the consciousness from
the stars and planets giving us
information.
And it literally
is changing people.
We're not the only people that
are taking these photographs.
We're actually having
other people take them
and would love to come in and
talk about this another time.
>>NOORY: Absolutely, yeah.
You know, we talked about
angelic intervention as well.
How would you
categorize that compared
to contacts from the dead?
What are the angelic
interventions?
What are they?
>>FREES: Well,
sometimes people who
have had these
interventions, it's for them.
They actually feel it.
It's to give them
another awareness
that there's more to this
physical matter reality
than we know.
And if they are
connected to a belief
system about angels or
other entities like that,
then that's for them.
It's to help them
understand something.
And when they can share
it with other people,
then it gives rise to more--
it's about lowering our entropy.
It's about removing
the chaos of what's
going on in our
world and our fear
and coming back into love,
being heart-centered.
>>NOORY: Are you learning from
these entities personally?
>>FREES: Absolutely.
I feel that the dead have taught
me so much about compassion
and forgiveness.
And that's really
been the trajectory
of possibly why I ended up doing
this work in the first place,
because it literally is.
It's healing.
It's healing the dysfunction
that I came in as a child with.
It's healing the elements of
all the pain and the trauma.
It's moving through
our consciousness
and finding more love not just
for others, but ourselves,
which is absolutely crucial.
And it's in the forgiveness
of those people that wound us,
and the dead, my goodness,
the conversations that they've
come in with have
been extraordinary.
>>NOORY: Have you
sometimes been approached
by more than one dead
entity at the same time?
>>FREES: Oh, my goodness, yes.
It's kind of like sitting in
the middle of tennis balls.
I've got this person here
and that person there.
It's family.
I love doing groups
where everybody
gets to hear the information
that's coming in.
And that's dramatic.
>>NOORY: Are they wowed by
all of this, these people?
>>FREES: I think they're moved.
I think the transformational
part of the work is that.
>>NOORY: It's got to be
emotional for a lot of people.
>>FREES: It is.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- I'm having a hard time not
to just let the waterworks go.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>FREES: But it expands
their awareness, George.
I mean, any time somebody has
their own experience of it,
it changes them.
Sometimes sitting with me and
people who are my friends,
the longer they spend
more time with me,
the more psychic and aware
they become themselves.
And I think that
this is where we are.
Being involved in this
work, as we have been,
as long as we have
been doing this,
there's something about it
that's transforming us as well.
>>NOORY: As an American
psychic, how would you
compare to the psychic
work of other places?
>>FREES: Well--
>>NOORY: The Brazilian psychics
and the Japanese psychics.
>>FREES: Well, how
about language?
That's one thing.
Although language
is interesting.
When you are in a
different country,
and I don't speak
the language, I
can feel the information
coming through,
and they will show me things.
But I think the aspect of being
American is truly very special.
How we were, how we came here,
and also why we came here.
You know, let's go back to
before we were even born.
Let's go to the
emotional DNA that
made us choose this lifetime.
That's a whole
other conversation.
Why we're here in
America, what are
we to do here, how we
have influenced worlds,
how we have been certain
leaders in various things.
And that's sort of
changing right now.
We're all in a process of
finding responsibility inside
of ourselves, as well as truth.
And it's crucial that
other people understand
their own psychic abilities.
These abilities that we
have all been blessed with
didn't just stop when the
Bible stopped being written.
These things, the
prophecy, the vision,
they have been our
birthright all along.
>>NOORY: Do you believe
in reincarnation?
>>FREES: Yes, sir.
I sure do.
>>NOORY: Do you sometimes
get messages from somebody
before they've reincarnated,
and then they're gone?
They've reincarnated and
they don't come back.
They don't communicate with you.
>>FREES: Well, it's more like--
let's look at it in a scientific
way of accessing data.
So if I'm accessing someone's
information, and all
of a sudden it stops,
and I no longer
access that
information for people,
it's often about reincarnation.
But sometimes people
on the other side
stay in that incarnation, for
some reason, for a long time.
I've accessed all the way
back to Catherine the Great.
>>NOORY: Dr. Jim Tucker
looks at reincarnation
and has been doing that quite
extensively in his career.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Since 1996, Dr. Jim
Tucker, a psychiatrist
at the University
of Virginia, has
been gathering case studies
of past life recognition
in children that could
prove that a soul returns
to Earth in another body.
- We've now got 2,500
cases in our files
from all over the world.
- Many people believe in
some form of reincarnation.
The concept dates back to 800
BC and the Hindu Upanishads.
Beginning in India, the belief
that some essential part
of ourselves may return
after death to a new body,
is now being examined by some
scientists as another way
to prove the survival
of consciousness.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: 2,500 cases.
>>FREES: Well, absolutely.
You know, my introduction
into this world
was Brian Weiss,
Dr. Brian Weiss.
>>NOORY: He was one of the
best and is one of the best.
>>FREES: Yes, absolutely.
When he regressed me on a
boat to Encinitas, Mexico,
I didn't even believe in it.
I had talked to him
the night before,
and I said, oh, come on,
what is this whole thing?
People come back and--
>>NOORY: DId he tape
your regression?
>>FREES: No, he didn't.
But I was so
dramatically moved by it
that I stood up and told
everybody in the group what
had happened to me.
And it was coming to this
Earth, choosing this time
to come back.
>>NOORY: On your own.
>>FREES: Well I don't
know whether I actually--
>>NOORY: Or maybe
somebody pushed you.
>>FREES: Yeah.
I sort of begrudgingly
said, OK, OK.
But there were aspects of
that that were so profound.
And I wasn't on this
Earth when I saw this.
I was above the Earth in
some sort of structure.
And I was standing
on a precipice,
and I was shown
North America, and I
was told where I had
to go and pole light.
And I'm like, oh,
crap, I got to go back.
I got to go back.
And it was dramatic.
It changed everything.
And that's another thing.
Until people have their
own personal experiences,
they're not going to shift
their consciousness around this.
They're not going to
have an idea about this.
People that don't
believe in this,
until they have an
experience, that's
when it changes for them.
>>NOORY: What do
you tell people who
want to get involved
psychically,
want to learn and do
things that you do?
Do you encourage them?
>>FREES: Of course I do.
You know, I'm a big
proponent of people
going to the Monroe Institute.
I also have lots of friends
within this world who
have written many, many books
prior to my "American Psychic"
book.
I instruct people
to go to others
who have a resonance
that is heart-centered,
because unless it's
heart-centered,
the intention is
going to be off.
It's just the way it happens.
I really feel that it's because
of my desire to help others,
because of what I had
to go through myself,
that that's why I'm able
to do the work that I do.
>>NOORY: Do you think if you had
not gone through this childhood
trauma that you would have been
as psychically inclined as you
are now?
>>FREES: I think that the
trauma that I experienced
is exactly why I am who I am,
and I'm deeply grateful for it.
And the whole trajectory of
the relationship with my mother
has been profound,
even in death,
and I'm deeply
grateful for all of it.
>>NOORY: Do you contact your
relatives that have passed on?
>>FREES: Well, they
have contacted me, too.
And when I have
heard, you know, we
need you to talk to
your mother or we
so-and-so, I actually
will get the help of possibly
one of my students or someone
else to help me
process that so they
can hold the space because I
happen to know the history.
But if I bring someone
else in to do it,
they don't know
anything about it.
So I will give them
the opportunity
to help work this out for me.
>>NOORY: Marla, do the dead
visit us in our dream state?
>>FREES: Oh, yes, absolutely.
I think it's one of the most
crucial places for people
to get that information.
And possibly it's
because there's
so much dogma around some of the
organized religion situations
that people don't
feel safe unless they
are seeing a deceased
loved one in a dream state.
>>NOORY: Has technology
helped what you do at all?
Do you use technology
in your field?
>>FREES: Well, I think the
technology of brain entrainment
is really important.
And you know, Tom Campbell,
who I've been working with, he
and Dennis Mennerich
and Bob Monroe
are the ones that developed
the hemisync program,
the binaural beats.
And I think that balancing
brainwave frequencies
is crucial.
But one of the key
things about that is--
and this is one of the
things I love about Monroe--
it's a structured environment
for people to feel safe,
and they have other
facilitators working with them.
I think that when people
do this on their own
and start playing
around with it,
they really do need assistance.
And I've sat in circles and
been invited to do this.
So the whole second half of
the book that I have written
is basically this insight
because I didn't grow up
talking to dead people.
It literally is
the remote viewers.
Lyn Buchanan, I
trained with him.
He literally is the
one that makes--
>>NOORY: He's one of the best.
>>FREES: And he made sense
of this for me, George.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
And he doesn't put people down.
And he encourages you.
>>FREES: Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
And he was an
aspect of my father
that I really, really
needed; that military man
who wanted to do
something with his life
that he couldn't when
my father came back.
>>NOORY: Now how does this work?
How does it happen?
How are you able to
contact the dead?
How are they able
to contact you?
How are people able to have
precognition and intuition?
What is it, in your opinion,
that we're tapping into?
>>FREES: I think it's the brain
functioning and the frequency
and the intention.
I think that it's consciousness
trying to manifest through us.
And it takes time, but
it takes awareness.
If we're bankers and we start
having these experiences,
we're going to be freaked out,
like something's happening
to me.
We have lots of fear around
how people perceive us.
So if something happens to
us when we get to grow up,
and it's whether we're going to
take that opportunity or not.
I was hit over the
head, basically.
I had to do this.
>>NOORY: RIght, literally.
>>FREES: Yeah, in
many different ways.
So I had to find ways
to get myself help.
And this is what happens,
I think, to people.
Something shifts, and
it's usually loss.
It can be a deceased
loved one that they lose.
It can be money.
It can be a relationship.
You know, my book starts off
with the end of my marriage,
because that was a whoa, here
I am a psychic, and you know,
this happens.
>>NOORY: Did you
see that coming?
>>FREES: Well, I was warned.
>>NOORY: See, sometimes,
though, as psychics,
you cannot work for yourself.
It works for other
folks and other people,
but it's too close to
you for some reason.
>>NOORY: You needed
another psychic
to tell you what was going on.
>>FREES: Well, let's
put it this way.
I was warned.
I was warned a number
of different times,
and I didn't want to even look.
I mean, who wants
their marriage to end?
Who wants to look
over their shoulder
and really see what's going on?
Who wants to take
responsibility for the fact
that I was not
honoring my own self?
And that's kind of what happens.
But it's true.
I do.
I seek the assistance of
astrologers sometimes,
as well as other psychics.
>>NOORY: Are you still learning?
>>FREES: Absolutely.
It's crucial.
It's fundamental.
>>NOORY: See, my
theory is we are all
connected, all connected.
>>FREES: Me too.
I believe that.
>>NOORY: That's
how this happens.
That's how we pick
up these things.
>>FREES: Well, you ask
about the learning.
I'd just been a part of this
applied pre-cognition program
where we're using psychic
functioning and remote viewing
to work in the stock market
and to check out finances
and how to wager
and all of that.
And that was something that
I never even thought of.
>>NOORY: Let me know how
it works out for you.
>>FREES: Well, it's possible.
Absolutely.
I was just in Vegas doing
this with Marty Rosenblatt.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
Marty's good at that.
>>FREES: And Lyn
Buchanan was there
>>NOORY: Was he successful?
>>FREES: Yes.
Well, it was a whole
group of people,
and we were all
quite successful.
>>NOORY: I've also noticed one
thing about things like Vegas.
You must go into it with
a very upbeat attitude.
If you go into it
with negativity
that I'm going to lose, this
isn't going to work out,
I guess you could do
that in anything in life.
It's not going to happen.
>>FREES: Well, we're protected
from that because we're
actually-- we're not
going down to a table
and we're trying to assess
the cards or anything.
It's not like that.
We're actually remote viewing
the photo site feedback
for the winner.
And so we're just
doing a regular target.
What's interesting
about it, though,
is that the photo site,
it comes in an envelope.
There's two pictures and it
says yes or no on the back.
But the envelope hasn't even
been chosen until after we're
finished doing our session.
It's remarkable of
this pre-cognition,
what our brains can do.
>>NOORY: It works.
>>FREES: Yeah.
But if I was watching the
game that I was betting on,
it would be no, no, no.
And I'd be emotional.
No, come on,
Yankees, go, go, go.
This way I don't
have to do that.
It's fascinating.
>>NOORY: How do people
find you, Marla?
>>FREES: Marlafrees.com.
>>NOORY: And Marla, thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>>FREES: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: You've
been a true delight.
>>FREES: Thank you.
>>NOORY: How to be
an American psychic.
Marla Frees.
That's what she's done
since she was a little girl,
and she's going to
continue doing it well
into her hundreds.
I'm George Noory.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]